Conservatives must do patriotic duty and back election
Boris Johnson failed our country and Liz Truss trashed our economy. The Conservatives have proven time and time again they are not fit to lead our great country.
We do not need another Conservative Prime Minister lurching from crisis to crisis, we need a general election, we need the Conservatives out of power and we need real change.
It is time for Conservative MPs to do their patriotic duty, put the country first and give the people a say.
<hr/>
Boris Johnson
The fact that Conservative MPs are even considering putting Boris Johnson back in Number 10 shows how out of touch they really are. They think there’s one rule for them and another for everyone else.
Boris Johnson was forced to resign in disgrace after countless lies, scandals and failures. He shattered public trust in the government and plunged the UK into a political crisis. He must never be allowed near Downing Street again.
The future of our country should be in the hands of voters, not the Conservative MPs who have caused all this chaos.
<hr/>
Deny Truss the £115k a year taxpayer dividend
Liz Truss will forever be known as the fifty-day Prime Minister. There is no way that she should be permitted to access the same £115k a year for life fund as her recent predecessors - all of whom served for well over two years.
To make matters worse, Truss’s legacy is an economic disaster - for which the Conservatives are making taxpayers foot the bill. For Truss to walk off into the sunset with a potential six figure dividend, while leaving the British public to suffer, would be unconscionable.
This huge potential payout will leave a bitter taste in the mouth of the millions of people struggling with spiralling bills and eye-watering mortgage rate rises thanks to the Conservatives’ economic mismanagement.
The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk.
This website uses cookies
Like most websites, this site uses cookies. Some are required to make it work,
while others are used for statistical or marketing purposes. If you choose not
to allow cookies some features may not be available, such as content from other
websites. Please read our Cookie Policy for more information.
Essential
Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the website to function properly.