Ed Davey launches local election campaign
This Conservative Government is letting people down badly and taking them for granted. Soaring energy bills, food prices and housing costs are overwhelming millions of families and pensioners. And the Conservatives have made the cost-of-living crisis so much worse - with all their chaos. Crashing the economy and adding hundreds of pounds to people’s monthly mortgage payments. Compounding people’s pain with unfair tax rises and deep cuts to essential public services, just to pay for the damage the Conservatives themselves caused.
Letting the NHS crisis spiral out of control. Failing to deliver the new hospitals they promised. Breaking their pledge to recruit six-thousand more doctors, and actually cutting GP numbers instead.Making people wait hours for an ambulance or months for urgent cancer treatment.
And breaking their promise on policing. The Conservatives have left too many communities plagued by burglaries and anti-social behaviour, and they are letting far too many criminals get away with it.
All that must change. This Conservative Government is out of touch, out of ideas and out of excuses.
So let’s send them a message in May: The British people want them out of government.
Everywhere I go, I see the remarkable decency and strength of the British people. Even in the toughest of times, people are working hard, raising families and playing by the rules.
Ed Davey
More and more people are turning to the Liberal Democrats. They know we work hard for our communities, we hear your concerns, and we never take you for granted.
Ed launched our campaign in a part of the world where we’ve enjoyed a lot of success recently .
Sarah Green’s historic by-election victory in Chesham and Amersham. Peter Taylor winning re-election as Mayor of Watford. Taking control of St Albans Council, and then winning fifty out of fifty-four seats last year.
But it’s not just happening here.
From Stockport to Surrey, from Eastbourne to Esher, from Horsham to Hull, our campaigns are going from strength to strength.
People who have voted Conservative all their lives are saying “never again”, and backing Liberal Democrat candidates instead.
People who usually vote Labour, but feel let down and taken for granted by Labour locally, are backing Liberal Democrat candidates instead.
It’s why the Liberal Democrats gained more seats than any other party at last year’s local elections.
The local elections in May are a chance to send a message that enough is enough: British people are fed up with being taken for granted by the Conservatives and want them out of government.
It’s not just about seeing more of the map coloured gold. It’s not just about beating the Conservatives and Labour.
It’s about getting strong local champions elected to fight for their communities. Strong Liberal Democrat councils elected to deliver a fair deal. And building a strong base to get more Liberal Democrats elected to Parliament next year.
I'm voting Liberal Democrat
Looks like there was a problem with the submission. Please check the fields below and try again.
Form successfully submitted
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
We will keep you up to date by email.
Phone number
We will contact you occasionally by telephone.
Postcode
Would you like to receive email updates? (optional)
Yes
No
Would you like to receive phone communication? (optional)
You can opt-out at any time
Yes
No
The Liberal Democrats may use the information you provide, including your political opinions, to further our objectives and share it with our elected representatives. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy: libdems.org.uk/privacy. You can exercise your rights and withdraw your consent to future communications by contacting us: data.protection@libdems.org.uk or: DPO, Lib Dems, 1 Vincent Square, SW1P 2PN.
The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk.
This website uses cookies
Like most websites, this site uses cookies. Some are required to make it work,
while others are used for statistical or marketing purposes. If you choose not
to allow cookies some features may not be available, such as content from other
websites. Please read our Cookie Policy for more information.
Essential
Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the website to function properly.