Hundreds of sewage leaks in England’s hospitals
Freedom of Information Requests to NHS Trusts has revealed in the past twelve months there has been a staggering 456 sewage leaks in England’s hospitals. 55 NHS Trusts provided responses which reveal the shocking state of the country’s hospitals.
"This is a national scandal. Our country’s hospitals are falling apart after years of underinvestment and neglect. Patients should not be treated in these conditions and heroic nurses should not have the indignity of mopping up foul sewage" said Lib Dem Leader Ed Davey.
Hinchingbrooke Hospital in Cambridgeshire, which has a roof which may collapse at any moment and cannot treat patients over a certain weight in some wards as a result, also registered sewage leaks amid speculation the hospital is not up to standard.
“There was water flooding the floor…. patient got up the bed and slipped due to the water.”
"Raw sewage smell is still on-going and staff are struggling to work in these conditions. They are all experiencing feeling nauseous, having headaches and feeling very tired."
“Department was unsafe, unable to access Minors. We were very lucky that nobody slipped on the water. It was embarrassing to run a department that has sewage leaking everywhere and offensive odour."
These shocking new reports follow an investigation by the Liberal Democrats which found just one in four of the new hospitals promised by the Government have planning permission. Senior NHS officials are now warning the hospitals will not be built by the 2030 deadline, or worst still, not built at all.
“This Conservative Government has taken local communities for granted by yet again breaking a manifesto promise" said Ed Davey.
The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk.
This website uses cookies
Like most websites, this site uses cookies. Some are required to make it work,
while others are used for statistical or marketing purposes. If you choose not
to allow cookies some features may not be available, such as content from other
websites. Please read our Cookie Policy for more information.
Essential
Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the website to function properly.