Lib Dems grill Rishi Sunak over NHS neglect
The Liberal Democrat Leader Ed Davey and two Liberal Democrat MPs have today slammed the Prime Minister on the Conservative government's broken promise to build 40 new hospitals.
The questions were met with jeers and boos from Conservative MPs which Ed Davey described as an "insult" to voters let down by years of neglect.
Conservative MPs booed and jeered from the sidelines. It is an insult to millions across the country suffering from years of Conservative broken promises and neglect.
Ed Davey
After a damning ITV investigation, the Lib Dem Leader asked the Prime Minister when he would deliver on the promise of 40 new hospitals. Ed Davey mentioned St Helier in South London and Hinchingbrooke Hospital in Cambridgeshire which each have buildings with collapsing roofs or floors.
Liberal Democrat MP for Tiverton and Honiton Richard Foord also asked what progress had been made on nearly a dozen hospitals promised for the West Country.
Meanwhile fellow by-election winner Liberal Democrat MP for North Shropshire Helen Morgan condemned the Prime Minister for neglecting local health services and asked what steps the Government is taking to recruit more GPs.
The NHS is facing collapse after years of this Conservative government running it into the ground.
Lib Dems will continue to hold them to account for their neglect of our health service and lack of progress on the long-promised 40 new hospitals. pic.twitter.com/yv3OER1ClX
The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk.
This website uses cookies
Like most websites, this site uses cookies. Some are required to make it work,
while others are used for statistical or marketing purposes. If you choose not
to allow cookies some features may not be available, such as content from other
websites. Please read our Cookie Policy for more information.
Essential
Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the website to function properly.