Lib Dems force sewage action
This afternoon the Government has caved into the Liberal Democrat campaign to end sewage discharges into rivers, by accepting the party’s amendment which stops taxpayers money going to water companies unless the discharges stop.
This is a victory for millions of people across the country who have voiced their outrage at water companies being allowed to get away with polluting rivers and coastlines.
Liberal Democrat MP Richard Foord tabled the amendment to the UK Infrastructure Bank Bill, which originally wrote a blank cheque of taxpayers money to polluting water companies.
The change to the Bill means the UK Infrastructure Bank can only fund water companies if they produce a costed and timed plan for ending sewage discharges into rivers.
Delighted that my amendment to the UK Infrastructure Bank bill has just been passed.
Thanks to @LibDems efforts, water companies won’t be able to be bailed out by the taxpayer until they present clear and time-limited plans to end the #SewageScandal.
The Liberal Democrats have been their voice on this environmental scandal and we will continue to champion their cause.
There is still a long way to go. The Government is still refusing to ban sewage discharges into swimming water and areas where protected wildlife live - and they are still refusing to ban water company CEOs rewarding themselves with bonuses whilst this environmental scandal happens.
The fight continues and we’ll keep holding the Government and water companies to account.
Join the Campaign
Stop Sewage Dumping
Tax water companies' huge profits and fix our sewage system.
Oops! Please check the fields below and submit again.
Looks like there was a problem with the submission. Please check the fields below and try again.
Form successfully submitted
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
We will keep you up to date by email.
Phone number
We will contact you occasionally by telephone.
Postcode
Would you like to receive email updates? (required)
Yes
No
Would you like to receive phone communication? (optional)
You can opt-out at any time
Yes
No
The Liberal Democrats may use the information you provide, including your political opinions, to further our objectives and share it with our elected representatives. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy: libdems.org.uk/privacy. You can exercise your rights and withdraw your consent to future communications by contacting us: data.protection@libdems.org.uk or: DPO, Lib Dems, 1 Vincent Square, SW1P 2PN.
The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk.
This website uses cookies
Like most websites, this site uses cookies. Some are required to make it work,
while others are used for statistical or marketing purposes. If you choose not
to allow cookies some features may not be available, such as content from other
websites. Please read our Cookie Policy for more information.
Essential
Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the website to function properly.