Membership fee initiative
With the Government in such a state of disarray, the next General Election could be at any time - and we need to be ready. General Elections are expensive. And we can't rely on wealthy cronies like the Tories, or trade union backing like Labour.
Even if we don’t have a general election in the next few months, we have a huge round of local elections in May - with record-breaking gains four years ago to defend, and so much scope for more gains too.
Our support comes entirely from the generosity of people like you. Our regular membership income means stability in our finances and the ability to plan ahead, putting resources where they will have the biggest impact.
Over the next few months we will be asking members whether they are happy to increase their membership fee. Anyone who is happy to do so won’t have to do anything. Anyone who is unable to give more or doesn’t wish to do so can opt out.
Not everyone will receive an email, and this is based on a wide range of factors - such as what we hold on file about any previous requests from the Party, those who have generously given more recently, or those whom we know to be eligible for concessionary membership rates, who won’t be asked at all. Some of you will have received this email as part of our trial earlier this year, and of course, we are very grateful for your contributions and will not be asking you again.
But of course anyone from these groups who wishes to increase their membership fee may do so by emailing help@libdems.org.uk - we are grateful for any contribution. Likewise, please do let us have any feedback either on emails you receive yourself or that you hear from colleagues.
You also have the option of letting us know if you want to give a different amount - it is entirely your decision. You can do this at any time.
We have extensively trialled this approach throughout most of this year, and found that most people agreed to increase their subscriptions. We have listened carefully to feedback received, a lot of which has been positive. We are confident that our emails are clear and unlikely to be missed, and all members will have two opportunities to opt out, alongside the chance to change their mind at a later date. At one of the committee meetings which scrutinised the scheme it was called “probably the most thoroughly tested and piloted initiative in the party’s history”.
What does this mean for us as a Party?
If we are able to increase our regular member income then this means that we are less reliant on ad-hoc donations and we can invest in our infrastructure and seats on an ongoing basis. Investing early and building capacity long-term is crucial to our success.
The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk.
This website uses cookies
Like most websites, this site uses cookies. Some are required to make it work,
while others are used for statistical or marketing purposes. If you choose not
to allow cookies some features may not be available, such as content from other
websites. Please read our Cookie Policy for more information.
Essential
Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the website to function properly.