My message on Carers Rights Day 2022
People looking after their loved ones are doing a remarkable job, often in very difficult circumstances. This is something I know all too well, as a carer for most of my life - first for my mum, then for my gran, and now for my disabled son, John.
This year, we mark the theme of Caring Costs. It’s clear that Caring Costs in so many ways, whether it’s emotional or financial. Especially in light of the cost of living crisis.
Up and down the country, family carers are facing huge pressures. Soaring energy costs and fuel prices can make it difficult to undertake their caring responsibilities. At the same time, many carers are struggling to juggle paid work with their caring responsibilities. And Carer’s Allowance remains the lowest benefit of its kind, at just £69.70 a week.
But yet again, the Conservatives are completely ignoring family carers. They were left out of the £650 Cost of Living Payment - and have even seen their support slashed by £207 this year, once soaring inflation is factored in.
Our carers deserve so much better than this. That’s why Liberal Democrats are calling on the Conservatives to extend their £650 Cost of Living Payment to all those on Carer’s Allowance. And we will keep campaigning to increase Carer’s Allowance by £1000 each year.
Carers and their loved ones desperately need extra support this winter. And Liberal Democrats will keep fighting for them.
Related Articles
The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk.
This website uses cookies
Like most websites, this site uses cookies. Some are required to make it work,
while others are used for statistical or marketing purposes. If you choose not
to allow cookies some features may not be available, such as content from other
websites. Please read our Cookie Policy for more information.
Essential
Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the website to function properly.