What do I need to take with me to vote?
How do I vote Liberal Democrat?
In England and Wales:
Put an X next to each Liberal Democrat candidate (look for the bird logo) on your ballot paper. You may have more than one vote, check the top of your ballot paper for instructions.
In Scotland:
In Scottish local elections you vote with numbers not crosses. Put a number 1 next to the Scottish Liberal Democrat candidate (look for the bird logo) - this is your first preference. If there is another Liberal Democrat candidate, put a number 2 next to them.
I have a postal vote but haven't returned it, what do I do?
You can take your postal vote back to any polling station in your local council area between 7am and 10pm Thursday 5 May.
Why are people asking for my number outside the polling station?
Volunteers called 'tellers' sometimes stand outside polling stations and ask for your polling number on the way in or way out. They will often be wearing a rosette from a political party. We do this so we know who has voted and don't bother you later in the day to remind you to vote. Your polling number is on your polling card.
Can I tell you when I've voted?
We'll be knocking on doors to remind people to vote, let us know that you've voted so we don't bother you at www.libdems.org.uk/voted
Why should I vote Liberal Democrat?
May’s local elections are your chance to send a message that you won’t be taken for granted.
People are turning to the Liberal Democrats more and more because they know we work hard for our communities, we hear your concerns, and never take you for granted.
Vote Liberal Democrat to get a councillor who will listen to you and champion your community.
The Liberal Democrats will use your contact details to send you information on the topics you have requested. Any data we gather will be used in accordance with our privacy policy at www.libdems.org.uk/privacy. To exercise your legal data rights, email: data.protection@libdems.org.uk.
This website uses cookies
Like most websites, this site uses cookies. Some are required to make it work,
while others are used for statistical or marketing purposes. If you choose not
to allow cookies some features may not be available, such as content from other
websites. Please read our Cookie Policy for more information.
Essential
Essential cookies enable basic functions and are necessary for the website to function properly.